Title: How to use this blog
Date: 2015-01-16
Tags: howto, blog
Slug: howto
Author: arnulf.heimsbakk@met.no

[Pelican]: http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.5.0/content.html
[github]: https://github.io

This blog is MET Norways IT blog. It contain notes, musings, tips and tricks from our IT personell and what they are working on. 

There is a short HowTo on how this blog is updated. To update the blog you need access to the git repository on [github].

## Prerequest

This blog is generated by [Pelican]. To start with we need to install the blog engine and check out the Git repository on [github] where the blog resides.

### Install Pelican 

Start with installing latest version of the Pelican blog engine. 

```bash
sudo apt-get install python-pip git 
sudo pip install pelican markdown ghp-import
```

### Check out the blog

Make a local copy of the blog repostory.

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:itmetno/itmetno.github.io.git
```

## Add an article 

Now we are going to add an article to the blog. 

- Go into the git repostory and ensure that you are on the blog branch.

    ```bash
    cd itmetno.github.io 
    git branch blog
    ```
- Ensure you have the latest updates.

   ```bash
   git pull
   ```

- Add your article under `blog` in `content` folder. Tips is to use `YYYYMMDD-` as a prefix for your filename.

    ```bash
    cd content/blog
    vim 20150116-example-article.md
    ```

- Fill out the standardized header of the blog.

    ```
    Title: Example title
    Date: 2015-01-16
    Tags: example, tag, list 
    Slug: example
    Author: example.name@met.no
    Status: draft

    Example ingress.

    ## Examle headline

    New example paragraph here.
    ```

- Remove the `Status: draft` when you are ready to publish the article.

- Add the new article to the git repository and push it to github.

    ```bash
    git add 20150116-example-article.md
    git commit -a -m "Added example article"
    git push
    ```

- Publish the article by generating the blog from the main folder of the repository.

    ```bash
    make github
    ```

Since I didn't remove the `Status: draft` of this example, it is accessible under the draft folder on the blog http://it.met.no/drafts/example.html


###### vim: set syn=markdown spell spl=en:


